# Challenge-3: Password Generator

## Purpose
In order to develop a user-friendly password generator, input elements for entering password length and selecting character types were generated with JavaScript. When a user clicks "Generate Password", a function checks that there is sufficient user input: a selected password length between 8-128 characters with at least one character type selected. If those conditions are fulfilled, then a password is generated by generating random characters based on the selected character types. In the event that a randomly generated password does not contain at least one of the selected character types, then a new one is generated until it does.

## Design
The dynamically generated input elements are given name attributes, and this is taken advantage of for generating passwords based on what options are selected. Before the password is generated, a for loop iterates through all of the input checkboxes and a separate array is filled with the names of those checked boxes. Those names are used for a switch statement nested within a for loop that iterates as many times as the password length to generate each character. For every iteration, a random index is generated for the selected checkboxes array which gives one of the chosen character types by its field name. That chosen name is the input of a switch statement which generates a random character of a selected character type. 

---

The reason for using this approach instead of one single string containing all possible characters is because it allows for an equal probability for every selected character type to be selected. Alternatively, if there was one string with all possible characters, then uppercase (26 characters) and lowercase characters (26 characters) would each have a much higher probability of being generated ~1/3 compared to numeric (10 characters) and special characters (15 characters, in this case), where each would only have ~1/6 chance to be chosen. As well, a single string containing all possible characters would require an if / else if statement for every possible situation, which would be impractical for this case given that there are 16 possible configurations for selected character types (e.g. only lower case, only uppercase and numeric, all character types, etc). Furthermore, if character types were to be added or removed in the future, this approach is much more flexible and would only require adding/removing an input field and adding/removing a switch case.

---

Once the password has been made, then a for loop which iterates as many times as there are checked boxes, verifies that the password contains all selected character types at least once. Pseudo code is given below:

```
boxes_checked = ALL_CHECKED_BOX_NAMES;

// Generating the random password
for (password.length) {
    random_index = random_int() * boxes_checked.length;

    random_char_type = boxes_checked[random_index];

    switch (random_char_type) {
        case LWR_CASE:
            lwr_chars = 'a-z';
            random_lwr = random(lwr_chars);

            random_password += random_lwr;
            break;

        case UPR_CASE:
            upr_chars = 'a-z';
            random_upr = random(upr_chars);

            random_password += random_upr;
            break;
            
        case NUMERIC:
            random_num = random();

            random_password += random_num;
            break;
            
        case SPECIAL:
            spe_chars = '!-&';
            random_spe = random(spe_chars);

            random_password += random_spe;
            break;
            
    }
}

// Validating the password
for (boxes_checked.length) {
    char_to_check = boxes_checked[i];

    switch (char_to_check) {
        case LWR_CASE:
            if (no_lwr_char) {
                random_password = generatePassword();
            }
            break;

        case UPR_CASE:
            if (no_upr_char) {
                random_password = generatePassword();
            }
            break;
            
        case NUMERIC:
            if (no_num_char) {
                random_password = generatePassword();
            }
            break;
            
        case SPECIAL:
            if (no_spe_char) {
                random_password = generatePassword();
            }
            break;
    }
}
```
